# PSSM-landslides
Landslides pose a formidable natural hazard. Accurate risk assessment of landslides triggered by precipitation heavily relies on hydrometeorological factors, specifically precipitation and soil moisture. However, the insufficient ground-based observations and the coarse spatio-temporal resolution hinder the performance of landslide prediction. It is not clear what hydrometeorological thresholds and triggering mechanisms are more likely to trigger landslides in China, particularly in the context of rapid urbanization. To address these questions, this study investigated 1504 shallow landslide events in Chinese urban and non-urban areas from 2007 to 2019. It utilized daily 1 km soil moisture at various depths (20–100 cm) and multi-source precipitation datasets, including gauge-based gridded dataset, in conjunction with three multi-source fusion precipitation products (Multi-Source Weighted-Ensemble Precipitation − MSWEP, the Climate Hazards Group InfraRed Precipitation with Station dataset − CHIRPS, and the Integrated Multi-satellitE Retrievals for Global Precipitation Measurement − GPM-IMERG), along with dynamic urban impervious area datasets. It aims to determine the optimal multi-source precipitation predictor, the critical soil moisture depth that triggers landslides, and to establish the hydrometeorological thresholds for landslides. Additionally, the impact of urbanization on landslide occurrences was estimated by comparing antecedent precipitation accumulation, soil moisture, and impervious surface ratio dynamics between urban and non-urban areas. The results indicated that a combination of 2-day cumulative CHIRPS precipitation and 100 cm soil moisture provided the most accurate predictions for landslides in urban regions of China (accuracy = 88.5 %), outperforming interpolated ground-based observations and other fusion products. Specifically, landslides become more prone when antecedent cumulative rainfall surpasses 97.42 mm in 2 days and soil moisture exceeds 39.6 % m3/m3 saturation in China. Urban areas experienced high antecedent precipitation levels, lower precipitation (64.40 mm) threshold and soil moisture threshold (38.9 %), and shorter durations at landslide sites compared to non-urban areas (71.90 mm, 41.4 %, and 7 days, respectively). The process of urbanization is observed to decrease soil moisture levels while concurrently elevating rainfall amounts. This phenomenon, combined with anthropogenic activities, including distance from roads and urban impervious surface expansion, contributes to 44.6 % of the causes of landslides by reducing slope stability and increasing the presence of loose material. These findings have implications for landslide warnings in urban areas with limited measurements and contribute to understanding urbanization’s impact on landslide risks in developing nations.

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhydrol.2024.131536
